let's now move on to look at the switch function.
And this is another function,
which will only work in office 365 and Excel 2016.
That's going to see right five.
And in this example,
we want to create what I've called a formal interview date based on the short date in
column G by formal,
I simply mean a date,
which includes the orginal on the first would want to display the S T on the second,
the nd on the third,
the RV and for all other days,
the th that's first of all,
look at how the switch function works and let's say that we use in an interview date of the
24th of October 2017 and we want to find out what orginal is appropriate for that date.
So the first parameter of the switch function it's an expression.
This is the expression that you want to evaluate and then specify a different series of
results,
depending on what value is the outcome off this expression.
So the expression were evaluating is the day off the interview dates,
and of course,
we used the day function to obtain that in this case.
The result is 24.
Then we have a series of pairs value One result one value to result to and so forth.
The value is one possible value or the expression that we've specified.
And in this case,
we want to combine values.
So we use the or function to do this.
If the day is 1 21 or 31 we want the result to be S t.
Then for a second test again,
we use all if the days two or 22 we want the results to be nd a man on third and final test
again uses a little to combine 3 23 to produce a result of our D remember function as the
default option.
If none of the tests that you specified proves to be true,
what default value you want to use?
And of course,
in the case of an orginal,
it would be t age.
And for the date that we're evaluating,
the 24 th is the true value said the default would automatically kick in because all of the
tests returned falls.
So that's now right out formula.
As usual,
I'm going to expand the formula bar,
and the first thing we want to display is the day and I'm going to use the text function.
To do this so equals text,
and what the text function enables us to do is to apply a format toe,
one component within a formula.
So here I'm a plane,
a format purely to the day the text function takes two parameters.
The first is the value to which you want to apply.
The formats that this is cause is the interview date in G two comma,
and the second is the format that you want to apply,
and you'll notice that it's format text,
which means that it's gotta go in double quotes.
So here I want tohave the day displayed as a number with no leading zeros.
And to do that I put a single bee to these would give me a numeric value with a leading 03
days would give me the short name of the day.
As in money,
M.
O N.
ANA calls.
Four days will give me Monday before name of the day.
That's the first part of our for more bait,
and then I'm going to use the ampersand or can Cata Nation to tag on the rest.
Let's now press all enter to go into a new line and then space bar a couple of times,
and now we need our switch function.
So switch first argument is expression.
What do we want to evaluate?
So we use the day function on G two,
which contains the interview date,
and that's our first argument.
Coma Pressel.
10 toe men just aligned the next argument under the first.
So now we need the first possible value.
Or,
in this case,
values.
We combine the values using the also that only one of them has to be true.
So one coma,
21 calm at 31.
So that's our first value value.
One comma result.
One.
If the day proves to be any of those numbers,
what value do you want to display at this point?
And,
of course,
it's a text value,
so it goes in double quotes and it's S t calmer.
And then we simply repeat this line,
so copy it wrestled.
Enter on,
just paste it in.
So now we can have to on 22 which would give M d a paste three on 23 which would give him a
D wall canto.
And then finally we have our cattle,
which is simply th and then close parentheses to end the switch statement.
And it would be a good idea to insert spaces after the orginal soldiers do that.
And then we tack on the rest of the date using ampersand again,
our press old enter and again,
I'll use the text function to achieve the appropriate for that in the value So which were
applying the format is again G two comma men in quotes the format that we want.
It's first of all,
the full name of the month.
That's full EMS,
then a space on the full year.
So that's four wise and then the clothes in parenthesis to end the text function.
So that's how the switch function works.
You may have encountered the structure in programming languages,
so you use it when you're tested more item or lots of different possible outcomes.
That's the same item each time,
but its value can be different,
and you bought the contents of the soul to be determined which of these values is equal to
the thing that you're evaluated in this case,
the day.
All the interview date.
That's it.
We can enter collapse the formula on double take on the auto he'll handle to copy down.
And,
of course,
what we end up with is not a date.
It is a piece of text,
so we can't before many date operations on this column.
We can only do that on the original column G.